---
layout: post
author: Dylan Carter
---
I learned a lot working on the Civic Action project with my team members. Doing this project helped increase my teamwork skills, as we had to be in sync as a group when we collaborated on this project. Working for a client also gave me a good idea about working on a project in the real world, with us being in charge of client communication and making sure to understand the wishes of the client and working together in a way to successfully implement them.
The Civic Action project is something for the Arkansas Civic Action Network. This group works to increase the civic engagement of people to help strengthen democracy. They partner with different local institutions to help achieve this goal. One of their programs is ENGAGE, which helps these students gain civic skills and encourages them to volunteer in their communities. The hope is that this program will be available at several high schools in Arkansas. Students will get trained about civic leadership and then be able to work on projects that are approved by admins and overseen by mentors. These projects will help students volunteer and get active in their communities. These projects will also help them get the mandatory hours they need to get a semester.
Working on this project for a client also did help teach me other things. It was nice to work for what is a good cause and an organization that is making a difference in our community. Working on this project helped give me perspective on this organization and their mission. Going back to what was mentioned first, being good at teamwork is very important for this project. It is very important to be able to communicate with team members and make sure that everyone is on the same page and that we all have reasonable expectations for each other. It was also important to make sure that I was doing a consistent output of work and pulling my weight in the group. Also, it was important to learn how to prioritize different things in the project and make sure that we got the most parts of our client’s vision done so that we were sure that we would have a good core of the project done when it was time to present it.
I do like the goal of our community partner and think that it will make a difference in the state of Arkansas. I think that it is important for people to be active in their communities, especially in high school and when they are younger. This project by our community partner does a good job of encouraging these students to pursue projects and will help them link up with a mentor that can keep them on track in working in their community. I think that this project would have been beneficial for me when I was in high school and would have helped me be more active in my community and gain actually meaningful volunteer hours.
I think the main thing that this project reminded me of is the importance of community service and being active and engaged in one’s community. It reminded me how important community service and civic knowledge are to maintain a healthy society and democracy. I think that it was enjoyable to work on this project and help improve my knowledge of databases and web systems while improving my teamwork and working for an organization that does good work in our community. This helped me apply the knowledge that I learned in the course to a meaningful real-world example, which will prepare me for this kind of work down the road.
